This episode is brought to
you by Datadog a full
stack monitoring platform that integrates
with over 400 technologies like
gremlin, PagerDuty, AWS Lambda, Spinnaker,
and more with rich visualizations
and algorithmic alerts. Datadog can
help you monitor the effects
of chaos, experiments, identify weaknesses,
and improve the reliability of
your systems. Visit Datadog hq.com/hansel
minutes to get a free
14 day trial and receive
one of Datadog's famously cozy.
T-shirts. Hi, this is Scott
Hanselman. This is another episode
of Hansel minutes today. I'm
talking with Simon for co
he's, a senior software engineer
at Docker. How are you,
sir? I'm really fine. I
am very happy to be
talking to you. I'm a
big fan. I like to
follow you on Twitter and
see all of your you're
so helpful. You're very kind
because everyone's always asking you
Docker questions and you're always
there to help, but I
know it's not your, it's
not your job to be
helpful on, on Twitter, but
you, you just love the
product, right? Yeah, actually, it's,
it's really interesting for me
to stay in touch with
our users. And I agree,
this is really easy for
me to be empathetic with
our users because our target
is actually developers. And, and
when, when some of the
rigorous program we've looked at
the stuff, I really really
feel, it feels a pain.
It's nice to be able
to, to talk to 'em
to, to them on Twitter
or YouTube, et cetera. I
think that's really cool. Sometimes.
You know, companies like Microsoft,
I think does this a
lot. They separate the developer
and the program manager, like
the PM is supposed to
talk to the customers and
they hide the developer in
the closet somewhere. But at
Docker it seems like the
developers like to be visible.
It might be because of
our open source background and
the fact that we always
have out a culture of
developing things in the open,
even if DACA itself is
not open source, we are
still in, I'm in this
kind of mindset where we
do open source projects and
we are, we share a
lot with the community. We
leverage our community to, to
build stuff that's really cool.
And that actually brings up
a good point. So you
say that Docker desktop I'm
on a windows machine, Docker,
desktop is not open source.
Maybe you could explain the
stack because people use the
word Docker kind of like
in America, the way we
use the word Kleenex, right?
Like the Kleenex is a
tissue, right. But if you
say hand me a Kleenex,
it could be any brand,
you know, or in America
you can say, give me
a Coke. And then they
say, what kind of Coke?
Well, Sprite or Pepsi. Like,
you know, it's becoming a
word that means containers. But
when I install Docker, desktop,
what am I getting? And
what is the stack and
what, what does each do?
Yeah. So look at it.
Some basically it's a, it's
a distribution of, of all
our tools. The first thing
that is ships is, is
a Docker demon. And on
windows, we ship factory to
the, we ship the windows,
containers, emails, but runs natively
on windows. And we also
ship so Linux demon. So
Booker D VAT friends, either
inside of an IPO, hyper
V VM, or if you
are running WSL to, it
can also run within WSL
to itself. As high vis
was demons. We also shape
or necessarily client, client site
tunings likes Docker, CLI, and
also Docker compose. We should
pause on Atari. We should,
we should.  the Kubernetes
CLI and something that we
also ship. And that is
not necessarily a well known
is, but we, we distribute
Coobernetti's as well. So with
you can just enable
the community CPI just by
clicking a button into UI.
So it's, it's a toolkit,
it's a complete toolkit for
all those things. And I
remember just a few years
ago, we would have to
install each of these things
kind of separately. I remember
installing Docker and then setting
that up and then getting
Docker compose. And then Kubernetes
was a whole other thing
after that. Yeah. Yeah. So
the ID, the MBI and
I'm looking at a stuff
is to get the seamless
Docker development experience on Mac
and windows. So what we,
what we do is we
try to similar to seamlessly
when both things together and
make them feel like you
are running on, on your
production server. So something that,
for example, that we under
for you is bind mounting
files from the windows environment,
into your Linux container environment.
And this particular example is,
is very tricky. And this
is part of the sort
of shine, but we are
the police that we make,
we make with Docker desktop.
It's not something that you
could do yourself and that
we are really happy to,
to bring, Well, some people
who have used windows before,
who are not windows people
complain because they say that
installing Docker on windows is,
is too hard, or it's
a hack. And they say,
Oh, on Linux, it's super
easy because you know, Docker
and the idea of containers
is kind of baked into
Linux, but it's not exactly
baked into windows. Is that
right? Yeah, that's right. And
I trade, it does change
a little bit with, since
windows eight, I think wherever
is this notion yeah. Painters
on windows. It's a, it's
a different kind of Container
of what we do with
Docker, but it shares some
seminar aspects like on windows,
some books, the apps don't
share the same registry don't
have access to the real
file system, but they go
through a broker or something
like that. So there are
some, some, some common things
between windows, sandbox apps and
Docker containers, but to come
back to the question and
why it's out to install
Docker on windows, I think
it's mostly because what we
do for making the experience
seamless is actually quite complicated.
We have to deal with
transition. We have to deal
with bringing network. You're trying
to network interfaces. We have
to deal with so many
different kind of windows configuration
and conflicting software. Like if
you run VMware, for example,
and as the credit stuff
depends on, on APRV on
the, on windows found basically
nothing that we can do.
So yeah, there are kind
of a, kind of a
long list of prerequisites. And
we try to make this
list a lot shorter by
leveraging on things like WSL
too, but it will always
be something complicated because at
the end of the day,
we need to run Linux
and we, we need to
run Linux executive builds on
your windows machine And early
versions of Docker, desktop. I'm
thinking maybe a year or
two ago, I remember installing
it. And I knew that
it would use hyper V
and it would fire up
a virtual machine. And I
would go into the hyper
V manager and I would
see a virtual machine and
its name was Moby. What
is Moby? Yeah. Maybe that's,
that's kind of fun because
it's the name of this
VM predates as a launch
of the Moby project, but
we did a few years
ago and it was just
kind of a very cool
name to use side as
I don't care. Like maybe
it's the name of the
way to, by the way.
So this Moby VM was
like, Trudy's a way, but,
but mostly around containers and
yeah, it was kind of
fun to use that name.
So Moby Dick is the
whale in the, in the,
in the book of the
same name and the, the
Docker logo is a whale
with containers, like a container
ship on top. And this
is because everything's not a
coal right. Kubernetes uses nautical
names. Everything's about The ocean.
Yes, exactly. We always have
used this analogy with shipping
containers and we've, I would
say the big boats, but
container ships. Yes. Container ships
actually. Yeah. In communities as,
as they can, this analogy
of a bit further than
that. But if we, if
we come like a few
years ago, we, we don't
Moby project that you might
be aware of. And I
treat, it was a way
for us to separate Docker
as a project, to our
open source project, which, which
we rely on for building
this local demon. Okay. So
when I would install this,
I would, and this is
a couple of years ago,
I would see this little
virtual machine kind of get
created. So you were basically
automating hyper V making a
virtual machine in the background.
And I had other virtual
machines, like I had a
no boon to virtual machine
that I would run in
hyper V. It seemed to
work pretty well, but I
felt that the startup time
was really long. Like I
would wait for quite a
while. And it was pretty
clear that there was windows.
And then there was Docker
talking to hyper V with
this, you know, couple of
megs of memory, a couple
of gigs of memory rather.
And you were basically sitting
on top of hyper V,
but then most recently that
went away and things just
got faster and better and
more integrated. And now I
don't feel like Docker is
sitting on top of a
hack. I feel like it's
very native and very fast
inside of windows. Can you
help me understand what changed
and what the, what the
architecture differences? Yeah. So Originally
we, we created our own
VM and as you said,
we, we actually automated IPV
in a way to run
our VM, wait for services
to start there and set
up interconnection with this up
front end, et cetera. And
yeah. And starting a VM
it's it takes, it takes
some time. It takes some
time, except if you are
actually Microsoft and you have
total control on both the
IVR values or the us,
the OAS and the Linux
environment itself. And that's what
Microsoft did with, with WSL
too. So what we are
relying on now, now that
they've just so two is,
is shipping is as the
fact that Microsoft provides a
real Linux Darnell running in
no UTVs, but boots under
two seconds, I think. And
so we liberate this on
a Linux environment to run
our, our, our services. And
often the factors that we
run the, exactly the same
payload as what we run
in our own new TTVM
with IPLV. But it says
that instead of putting a
fully full fledged VM, we
actually run the lookout is
a backend in a container
within WSL, too, as a
tricky part is to create
this container, or we would
without having Docker in the
first place. So we, we
dealt directly with, with Linux,
John API is to, to
set up our isolated environment
within the, your TTVM and,
and spin up things from
there. So it was announced
this week at build that
the version of windows, I
think it's 2004 or 2004,
which means 2020 April, or,
you know, spring is the
one that has WSL two,
which is our favorite version
of the windows subsystem for
Linux. This is the one
that is the best choice.
So if you're doing Docker
on windows, you really are
going to have a great
experience. If you stand at
WSL two, you would not
recommend doing it any other
way. Yeah, it's really, it's
a, it's, it's, it's much,
much better with WSL too,
in term of difference. In
term of, of startup, we
start in under 10 seconds
on the moderate muddle machine,
which is really awesome compared
to what we had with
IP before and after that,
it also integrates really well
with your own WSL to
these tools so that you
can have native IO performance
when you buy in months
things from, from your destroyer
to a Docker container and
yeah. And things like the
WSL to VM runs with
dynamic crystal set location. So
we can consume as liter,
as little resources as we
need and scale to as
much as we need in
term of CPU and memory
to run your better payloads.
So yeah, overall the performance
are merged merger, bitter river,
we've Ogilvy a van with
a w two and a
on a, on an APV.
And so, yeah, I would
really recommend that to upgrade
to 20 or four. And
an interesting fact is that
w two is also running
on windows and previously, as
we leveraged APRV we, we
could only run on windows
10 pro and we'll just
have to, now you can
sell Docker, desktop on windows
and develop bleeding containers from,
from when you were windows.
That's really huge. I know
I it's a little confusing.
Cause if you go to
windows features, there's hyper V
and then there's virtual. What
is it? Virtual something platform.
Yes. Windows virtualization platform. I
think, yeah, that's, that's quite
funny because it's truly just
two ways and two ways
to install the same iPad.
So when, when you install
the fully fledged, Adobe, you
don't really need this new
feature, a windows virtualization platform
for WC two to work.
It just needed. If, if
you are running on a
home or if you don't
want to install APRV or
the Walla and set of
IPV services on your mission.
So this unlocks the ability
to use Docker on anyone
out there who has home.
So that means students, anyone
who doesn't want to pay
the extra money for pro,
because pro includes a whole
bunch of other stuff. And
that's a huge thing to
make that available. So you
can't, if you have home,
you turn on the virtualization
platform, you can use Docker,
your doctor, desktop, Kubernetes, all
this stuff, you just can't
use the hyper V virtual
machine stuff where you're actually
opening up like a boon
to full square, like a
full virtual machine on, on
Lennox, right? Yes. And there
is a fun fact it's
that you can choose a
IPV backend, but you can't
use windows containers back in
either because windows containers is
a windows 10 pro feature.
So that's really funny because
you can develop Phoenix containers,
run capabilities, et cetera. But
the windows container support is,
is not very long. Well,
what's really nice though, is
that you can use WSL,
you can use visual studio
code and you can get
a really lovely experience for
developing. Yeah, no, just the
Island. I really like to,
I like the experience with,
yes. COVID remote to the
WSL feature, which allows you
to run. Yes. COVID backend
within WSL itself within your,
your distro. And so it
fits really, really well with,
we look at stuff and
the WSL backend. So this
way you can actually target
early next production environment using
Linux builds crates and things
like that, and get your
nice idea experience on windows.
And yeah, that's, that's really,
really awesome. And that's actually
is a way I developed
to day to day on
the, on the desktop. When
I, when I have to
deal with, with, with the
WSL backend, I've used WSL
to develop the WSL backend.
That's really good. No one
wants to manage databases if
they can avoid it. And
that's why Mongo DB made
Mongo DB Atlas, a global
cloud database service that runs
on AWS, GCP and Azure.
You can deploy a fully
managed Mongo DB database in
minutes with just a few
clicks or a few API
calls, Mongo DB, Atlas, automates
deployment, automates updates, handles scaling,
and more so that you
can focus on your application
instead of taking care of
your database, you can get
started free@mongodb.com slash Atlas. Now,
if you're already managing a
Mongo DB deployment, Atlas has
a live migration service, so
you can migrate it easily
with minimal downtime and then
get back to what matters.
Stop managing your database and
start using Mongo DB Atlas.
Now there's, there's being able
to go into WSL type
code, and then you're in
windows using vs code, and
you're doing your compilations in
Linux. But then there is
what are called dev containers,
where you have a.dev container
file. And that works amazingly
with Docker desktop. So you
can go and have a
folder, put some stuff in
it that is some source
code, but you don't have,
for example, go or rust
or Python. And then visual
studio code fires up and
says, Oh, this is a
development container because it sees
a little text file that
says.container.dev container. Then it opens
again and does all the
Docker work. It installs everything
you need so that your
entire stack of development exists
only in Docker and with
Docker desktop on windows. It
just, it just works. It's
like impossible. Yeah. So I
really like this approach of
working and some to, to
go a little further than
that. It's also allowed us
to work on longterm supported
software and don't have to
deal with issues whenever you
need to upgrade and as
DKA or something like that
for building your software over
time, you don't have to
think about, Oh, by the
way, I have a version
that dates from one year
ago, but I still need
to support for three years,
we did work with the
new version of the tools,
et cetera. One thing that
the development containers feature allows
you to do is to
actually Vashon your tool set
alongside your source code. And
that's really, really cool. So
that at any given time
given point of time, I
can go back to a
version of tuning that I
use to build my product
advertising. That's really, really cool.
And I wish we could
use that. We've, we've looked
at a list of Beethoven.
Oh yeah. That would be
amazing. I'm looking at my
WSL. So I typed WSL
dash dash list and it
lists out like I have
wound two and I have
w Linux and I, you
know, I have the different
loan and then I have
one that's called Docker desktop.
That's your WSL distribution. You're
effectively, rather than making a
big, heavy VM and hyper
V you're making a tiny,
lightweight WSL distribution. And when
I run a container, it
runs inside of that distribution.
Is that correct? Yeah. So
w we actually run two
distributions, one that has absolutely
no executive, which is just
therefore backing your container of
configuration volumes and things like
that. We use, we use
it basically as a, as
an additional VHD, but we
attach to our, to our
main district and various local,
the sub distro. And what
it does is it's a
very small destroyer which contains
occurred that creates the actual
container that France our backend,
our set of backend services.
So it contains a single
WSL bootstrap executable. If you,
if you enter it using
WSL, the, and where you
look at this top is
running and you, you run
, you'll see that various
WSL bootstrap that creates a
new container. And you can
see as a unit process
within this container, I've actually
just did that. I said,
WSL dash D Docker, desktop,
WSL bootstrap. And it says
program files, Docker, Docker for
WSO dot ISO. You mounted
an ISO. Yeah, yeah, yeah.
That's actually, we, we use
the same, the same tooling
that what we use for
building the APL VVM. So
the APL VVM is actually
based on two ways over
at, we kind of merged
together one that contains the
base of the, a Linux
distro and one that contains
the Docker, the version and
things like that. Veta roses
to easily swap the Booker
demon version from  and
the same, the same for
communities and things like that.
So we stitched Vista way
tweezers together, and we attached
a VAT. And what we
do with WSL too, is
that we basically does the
same thing. We have the
same was saying two ways
or five, those one, but
is a little bit different
than the IPO. I probably
say, but it's mostly the
same code, but packaged in
a slightly different way. And
we, and we bind mounts,
a directory that lives in
the local data destroy inside
what we call our Linux
get environment so that we,
we have the same feature
as a VHD, but implemented
as a bine monk from
the COVID data to look
at this stuff district, One
of the things that's most
amazing as I have kind
of now I'm in the
WSL two environment compared to
when it used to work
was, I always felt like
Docker was kind of layered
on top of windows. But
now when I say Docker
images right now, I'm looking
in my PowerShell, I see
Docker images. And I see
my images. I go over
to my Boone two on
the same machine. And I
say, Docker images, I see
the exact same images. Like
it's, it is one Docker
on the machine rather than
what I used to see,
which was different contexts. But
when I go and say
Docker context LS inside of
Ubuntu, it says, Docker, end
point VAR run. And I
go over into the, the
windows world. And I see
a different thing, which one,
which one is real we're
we're piping somehow. I don't
understand this idea of context.
Can you explain that? Yeah,
obviously of context is It's
nothing really to do with
the Dakota stuff. It's something
that we added to the
CLI, but it allows you
to a store, the credit.
It was a credit on
shows and configuration to talk
to various Docker endpoints with
the same CLA and switched
from one to the other,
just by using a Docker
context, use a common. And
that's, that's pretty cool for,
for ups. People must be,
I'd have to deal with
many different production and staging
environments and deploy things on
endpoints. Hmm. Actually, if you,
if you don't get those
different several address on, on
two and on, on the
windows side, actually, they are
both right. And that's because
they don't talk directly to
the, to the demon. We
actually run a little proxy
on the windows side and
on each distro where you
have activity integration. And this
little proxy allows us to
do a couple of things.
And the most important thing
is to actually rewrite all
the bind months that you,
but you do, like if
I'm on, on windows and
I want to share my
C drive inside the container,
we need actually to instruct
to change the path that
you say, your input. So
in your criminal line, you,
you say, I want to
move C colon, something into
a slash Val data, for
example, and to do that,
we, we actually need to
map this secret thing into
a bus that corresponds to
within our own Linux
environment, and actually about the
same thing. When you are
on Ubuntu and you want
to bind munch your own
drive inside a entitle container,
as we are running Docker
in, you know, different namespace,
we need to actually convert
as a past vet. You,
you give us some input
into something that the colors
can actually see and various,
various tricky part. And the,
the biggest complexity in, in
the WRC and integration is
actually there. It's making sure
that we, we get very,
very good. Are your performance
really negative or your performance
when you buy in mom's
thing and that we, and
at the same time, we
need to translate paths correctly
and share, share data between
one, these two and our
own local rest of the
store. For the most part,
everything just works. Like you're
saying, well, this is a
little tricky, and this is
a little tricky, but you're
doing the work. So the
result is I'm able to
go and do my development
very, very naturally without having
to worry about anything. Like
it feels native. And it
is incredibly fast. I, in
fact, I'm doing all my.net
core builds and using Docker
on a local machine now.
And because I'm using WSL
too, it feels like I'm
on the metal. Yeah. And,
and we are really, really
up here. We've had actually
it's and sometimes, you know,
we, we, we have some
bugs with this kind of
system and, and as it
feels so easy to use,
most of, of our users
think it's it's what do
you see in Belinda's they
would, and actually it's not.
And sometimes our users complain
about, yeah, you know, Biden,
monsters don't work correctly on
the windows side. Performance is
not as good as if
I buy in one from
WSL itself or something like
that. And actually, yes, it's
true. It's, it's tricky and
very, a lot of work
behind, beyond those kind of
features. And, and for a
long time, we, we had,
we had problems with Bain
months, with April and Vera
award category of issues that,
that we add to, to
walk around with sharing, sharing
your Sid rave into a
container of our friends in
Naperville things like the sambar
pro server on, on the
windows side can be disabled
by your GPO. Or it's
not reachable from a foreign,
from a foreign computer. If
you are on the world
in Asia, active directory or
things like that, there are
so many, many cases where
we just can't do anything.
And it's not really, really
able, and we are not
happy with that, but yeah.
And this, this tension between
user feedback saying vis doesn't
work and saying, yes, we
know, and it's already so
difficult to, to make it
work the way it Fox
today. And yeah. Okay. So,
but if people have windows
2000 or 2004, so windows
10, the version that is
in the first quarter of
2020, and they get the
Docker desktop latest stuff, they
go into resources, WSL integration.
They just have to click
enable integration with my default
distro. You handle everything. They
don't install Docker in WSL
to get started. Yeah, no,
they don't need to. We
actually ships a Linux as
CLI with, with  and
we actually create SIM links
to, to the binaries that
live within  from your
environment. So everything is in
your past your type, you,
when you were unable to,
as integration, you can type
Docker or occipital, and it
just gets, gets resolved. Those
are only one keys where
it's a little bit trickier
is for just tools that
doesn't come with a, with
a GDC, this was like
Alpine on or things like
that, where we, you need
to, to install a gypsy
combat layer so that our,
our executable scan can run
on the, on your environment.
So the easiest way to
get started is to make
sure you've got the latest
windows you have enabled WSL,
and now at build, they
announced they're going to make
it even easier to just
say, WSL dash dash install,
install, Docker, desktop, and then
you're ready to go. And
you can just, even, like
you said, check a box
and get Kubernetes, and then
all it gets better with
visual studio code. Of course.
Yeah, sure. Yeah. That's a,
that's exactly that then. Yeah.
I really wish that we
could brought this level of
experience and performance to more
users like people running when
current investment in windows 10
or 1909 or something like
that. I really, I really
have that we can, at
some point reach them with,
with visit WSL to backend
as well, but that doesn't
depend on us and yeah,
maybe, maybe Microsoft will want
to Blackboard WSL two or
something like that. That's really
cool that people could do
this kind of good stuff
and not, cause not everyone
can upgrade to the absolute
latest, latest windows. Yes. Yes.
And yeah, that's, that's always
a problem with new APIs.
And in the, in the
past, we, we have struggled
with doing the choice of
leverage, leveraging a very recent
API. And it's mostly because
on our side of the
curve, we need to support
people with very broad runs
of veterans. And yeah, and
for that, we just had
to, it was a view
of vet. It was a
very good fit and we
wanted to leverage that. But
for, for many cases before
we were just went back
and say, Oh, it's, it's
likely adds so much complexity
to the take windows versions
detectives. The API is where
I've fallen back solutions and
things like that. So for
now, from now on, we
consider for example, that the
wall IPLV back in is
our fallback mechanism for when
the resell two is not
available. D it gives you
some kind of a view
about the choice that we,
that we have to do
between leveraging a new API
and having to maintain multiple
paths for, for doing the
same thing. And I think
the research too is, is
just a very bright example
for, for that. Like, if
you, if you don't have
WSL two, we need to
do something and make it
work anyway. And yeah. Advertise
via the previous VR back
in. Yeah. I think that
WSL two is definitely the
future and it's just going
to get better. And there's
stuff that we learned at
build this week. I'll make
sure I put links in
the show notes. I'll also
put links to both of
you on Twitter as well
as to go and download
Docker desktop that folks can
do right now. Thank you
so much for chatting with
me today. This has been
another episode of Hanselminutes and
we'll see you again next
week. .